[luci-interpreter] Introduce README (#7709)
Samsung/ONE: compiler/luci-interpreter/README.md

# luci-interpreter

`luci-interpreter` is an inference engine for neural networks represented by luci IR.
See `compiler/luci/lang` directory for details about IR.
You can find useful infrastructure, like importer/exporter, optimizations in `compiler/luci`.

luci-interpreter provides:
- Basic inference functionality, input setters and output getters
- Interface for inspecting hidden interpreter state, like activation values during inference
- Customization mechanisms to adaptate interpreter to specific platforms, like MCUs

Public interface headers are placed in `luci-interpreter/include/luci_interpreter` directory

### Basic usage

Minimal usage includes:
- Setting input data
- Run inference
- Fetching inference results

Interpreter object is reusable and can run multiple inferences.
Elements in tensors (input/output/internal) are stored contiguously and has C-like layout:
This means for tensor t=[[0, 1],[2, 3]], t[0,1] == 1.

> Input and output tensors are enumerated and have same order in origianl luci model. 

Reviewer: typo: "origianl" -> original
```suggestion
Input and output tensors are enumerated and have same order in original luci model. 
```

This is done by `MemoryManger` interface, see `luci-interpreter/include/luci_interpreter/MemoryManager.h` for implementation details.

Header contains `IMemoryManager` abstract class which is responsible for allocation and dealocation of tensors memory.

User can construct interpreter with one of predefined memory mmanagers or it's own custom memory manager.

List of predefined memory managers:
- `SimpleMemoryManager` This is simple wrapper around new/delete, default one.
- `TestMemoryManager` Memorizing all allocated memory and releases it in Manager desctuctor, used in kernel unit tests.
- `BuddyMemoryManager` Implements Buddy algorithm, uses external buffer for tensor data allocations, do not need new/delete.
- `StaticMemoryManger` Uses precomputed memory allocation plan. Requires preparation with MemoryPlanner, but could improve memory consumption in restricted environments (like MCUs).

Usage example:
``` c++
luci_interpreter::BuddyMemoryManager mm;

luci_interpreter::Interpreter interpreter(module, &mm);

// initialize input_data
interpreter.writeInputTensor(input_node, input_data.data(), input_data.size());

interpreter.interpret();
...
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
BuddyMemoryManager usage example:
`TBD when it is merged`
```

Author: I hope it will be merged in near future =)

Author: done!

# luci-interpreter

> `luci-interpreter` is an inference engine for neural networks represented by luci IR.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`luci-interpreter` is an inference engine for neural networks represented in luci IR.
```
Maybe?

See `compiler/luci/lang` directory for details about IR.
You can find useful infrastructure, like importer/exporter, optimizations in `compiler/luci`.

> luci-interpreter provides:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`luci-interpreter` provides:
```

- Basic inference functionality, input setters and output getters
- Interface for inspecting hidden interpreter state, like activation values during inference

> - Customization mechanisms to adaptate interpreter to specific platforms, like MCUs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Customization mechanisms to fit the interpreter to specific platforms, like MCUs
```

Public interface headers are placed in `luci-interpreter/include/luci_interpreter` directory

## Basic usage

Minimal usage includes:
- Setting input data

> - Run inference

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Running inference
```

- Fetching inference results

Interpreter object is reusable and can run multiple inferences.

> Elements in tensors (input/output/internal) are stored contiguously and has C-like layout:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Elements in tensors (input/output/internal) are stored contiguously and have C-like layout:
```

This means for tensor t=[[0, 1],[2, 3]], t[0,1] == 1.

> Input and output tensors are enumerated and have same order in original luci model. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Input and output tensors have the same indexes as in original luci model. 
```
Existence of Indexes implies an enumeration

const auto *input_node = dynamic_cast<const luci::CircleInput *>(input_nodes[0]);
std::vector<char> input_data(getTensorSize(input_node));
// Initialize input data here

interpreter.writeInputTensor(input_node, input_data.data(), input_data.size());

// Start inference
interpreter.interpret();

// Fetch inference results
const auto output_nodes = loco::output_nodes(module->graph());
const auto *output_node = dynamic_cast<const luci::CircleOutput *>(output_nodes[0]);
std::vector<char> output_data(getTensorSize(output_node));
interpreter.readOutputTensor(output_node, output_data.data(), output_data.size());
```

## Inspecting intermediate state

Interpreter provides interfaces to investigate internal state of interpreter during inference.

This is done by "observer" mechanism:
- `Interpreter` class has `attachObserver` method, which takes pointer to `ExecutionObserver` object
- `ExecutionObserver` defines several callback methods user can override to inject custom code

ExecutionObserver provides three callbacks:
- `postTensorWrite` checks contents of output tensor after operation execution
- `preOperatorExecute` notifies that interpreter is going to execute operation

> - `postOperatorExecute` notifies that interpreter finished operation execution

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `postOperatorExecute` notifies that interpreter has finished execution of an operation
```

See `luci-interpreter/include/luci_interpreter/Interpreter.h` for this interface details.

**Usage example:**
``` c++
class CustomExecutionObserver: public luci_interpreter::ExecutionObserver
{
public:
  void postTensorWrite(const luci::CircleNode *node, const Tensor *tensor) override
  {
    if (tensor->element_type() != loco::DataType::FLOAT32)
      return;
    for (int i = 0; i < tensor->shape().num_elements(); ++i)
      std::cout << tensor->data<float>[i] << ", ";
  }

  // User observer can override only needed methods,
  // others will inherit empty implementation from base observer.

  // void preOperatorExecute(const luci::CircleNode *node);
  // void postOperatorExecute(const luci::CircleNode *node);
};

luci_interpreter::Interpreter interpreter(module);
CustomExecutionObserver observer;
interpreter.attachObserver(&observer);

// initialize input_data
interpreter.writeInputTensor(input_node, input_data.data(), input_data.size());

interpreter.interpret();
```

## Customizing inference

### Memory manager

> Interpreter provides handle to alter default memory management mechanisms.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Interpreter provides a handle for altering default memory management mechanisms.
```

This is done by `MemoryManger` interface, see `luci-interpreter/include/luci_interpreter/MemoryManager.h` for implementation details.

> Header contains `IMemoryManager` abstract class which is responsible for allocation and dealocation of tensors memory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This header contains `IMemoryManager` abstract class which is responsible for allocation and dealocation of tensors' memory.
```

> User can construct interpreter with one of predefined memory mmanagers or it's own custom memory manager.
> Note that one memory manager could be shared between multiple interpreter instances, because interpreter does not own manager object. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
User can construct an interpreter with one of predefined memory managers or their own custom memory manager.
Note that one memory manager could be shared between multiple interpreter instances, because an interpreter does not own the manager object. 
```

List of predefined memory managers:

> - `SimpleMemoryManager` This is simple wrapper around new/delete, default one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `SimpleMemoryManager` This is a simple wrapper around new/delete, default one.
```

> - `TestMemoryManager` Memorizing all allocated memory and releases it in Manager desctuctor, used in kernel unit tests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `TestMemoryManager` Memorizes all allocated memory and releases it in Manager desctuctor, used in kernel unit tests.
```

> - `BuddyMemoryManager` Implements Buddy algorithm, uses external buffer for tensor data allocations, do not need new/delete.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `BuddyMemoryManager` Implements Buddy algorithm, uses external buffer for tensor data allocations, does not need new/delete.
```
